# ScrewTheoryRobotics-MECHANICS-Illustrated

Dr. Jose M. Pardos-Gotor
"Screw Theory for Robotics, MECHANICS - An Illustrated & Practicable Introduction to Modern Robotics"
Additional Material

This repository is a collection of CODE, EXERCISES, and SIMULATIONS for giving support to this book. It allows us to follow with detail the examples included in the text. It covers KINEMATICS, DIFFERENTIAL KINEMATICS, and DYNAMICS. There are some innovations for new inverse kinematics canonical subproblems and their application to solving several manipulators' problem. Besides, we propose an improvement for the Recursive Neuton-Euler Algorithm (RNEA) in union with the Product of Exponentials (POE) for dynamics. This repository aims to show the advantages of the Screw Theory mathematics for robotics, with many examples to understand the theoretical concepts. There is a complete set of exercises for some of the most typical robot architectures (e.g., Puma, Bending-Backwards, Gantry, Scara, Collaborative, Redundant). The software performance is not the priority, even though the algebraic and geometric implementations are compelling and much better than some competitive numeric and algebraic algorithms in terms of efficiency and effectiveness. The scope has mainly a didactical purpose. These contents were used at the "Master in Robotics and Automation" of the UC3M (University Carlos III of Madrid) by the Department of Systems Engineering and Automation. We are sure all this material will be a perfect foundation for better robotics developments and outstanding performance applications!
